Here are some tips on how you can make your Linux system more secure that I've been following for a while.  Implementing them doesn't require much effort.  I haven't gone through all the posts in this thread as yet; hence quite a bit of what I'm suggesting may duplicate what has been said here before.
1. Don't log in unnecessarily as root.  Also, rather than opening a shell with su + password, it might be preferable to run sudo. (sudo sh -c '$(insert command here)')
2. Use secure passwords, e.g. those generated from the first letters of a phrase that's meaningful to you and that includes alphanumeric characters as well as special symbols, e.g. "Joe lives on 147 Huron Avenue & likes Sun Crisp apples" -> Jlo147HA&lSCa.  Then check your passwords with John the Ripper.  It's highly improbable that it would be able to crack a password such as the one above.  Don't put your passwords on a sticky that you then tag to your computer or put anywhere else in a non-secure location!
3. Put a double firewall between your machine and the Internet, e.g. by using a NAT router and a software firewall.  If you're using a broadband connection, putting your host behind a NAT router gives you the best bang for the buck in increasing system security.  Adequate NAT routers such as the D-link DI-524 or its Linksys or Netgear equivalents can be had for US$30.
As to a software firewall, install iptables and a good iptables configuration script.  I recently looked into what's available in OSS and settled on Arno's firewall (arno-iptables-firewall from http://rocky.molphys.leidenuniv.nl) which is the most popular and one of the most highly rated firewall scripts on freshmeat.net and which is fairly easy to configure.  Shorewall is also quite good.  Among the iptables config utilities with GUI Firestarter is good.
4. Frequently check for recent security patches that have been issued for the software installed on your system.  With Arch, I suppose, frequent upgrades (pacman -Syu) will take care of much of that.
5. Scan your system with nmap from a remote host to check which ports are open, and then disable all services that are not absolutely necessary.  The default install of Arch appears to be quite frugal; it activates no system services that are not essential.
6. Install and regularly run the following security software: a. rootkit probes such as Rootkit Hunter (rkhunter) and chkrootkit (get the most recent versions of these from their websites), b. an intrusion detection system such as Samhain or Snort.  An antivirus program such as clamav may not really be necessary; I believe it mostly scans for Windows viruses/worms/trojans in Windows files that you may have on your Linux system.
7. Install and run Bastille.  It probes your system for vulnerabilities and based on that makes recommendations on how you can harden it.  I must say though that I've run it on different Linux installs and always chose not to follow any of its recommendations (I don't remember why; possibly I was simply too lazy or too ignorant then).
8. Regularly monitor the health of your system with: a. top or htop or Process Table (CTRL-ESC), b. lsof or glsof, c. netstat and ntop, etc.
9. Be alert to security hazards that are OS-independent, e.g. phishing, pharming, DNS poisoning etc.
10. Specific security measures that should be implemented for wireless networking:
a. Encrypt your wireless traffic with at least 128-bit WEP encryption, or better still with WPA.
b. Turn off broadcasting your access point essid.
c. Implement MAC address filtering
d. Periodically check the router logs for funny business. 
